You may recall that there was a tendency in part of freshmen to drown out an upper class one.
And it was kind of strange.
The upper class one didn't think you were a good freshman if you didn't try.
They were proud of the fact that their freshman had some spirit.
But if you did it, they'd kill you.
Depending on who you did it to.
And on one occasion, the upperclassmen sort of hinted pretty strongly that there was a certain sophomore that really needed it.
It would make him a better person if we drowned him out.
So being cooperative, a couple guys and I, actually one guy and I did it.
And I'll never forget, the trick was you threw the water, locked the door with a certain device, a stick, and then you ran and jumped in bed and tried to act like you'd been there all night.
Eventually, the lights come on, a big commotion, and the sophomores begin to check.
And they'd come in and put their hand over your heart, and they could tell if you'd been running or check your feet if they were dirty and so forth.
And I can remember the guy that did it.
He put his hand on my heart and it was about to come out and he said, well, not this guy.
And he was one of the co-conspirators.
He was one of the people that had been hinting pretty strongly that we should drown out this other sophomore that none of them liked.
And on occasion we would partner, like there'd be a sophomore in another outfit in another dorm that needed refreshments.
And our first friends in that dorm would ask us to come over and do it.
And this would occur at about what hour?
Two, three in the morning, dead of night.
And was it always water?
always water, although there's stories that go around about other kinds of things.
There was a peculiar culture.
There was a line you didn't cross.
You didn't really hurt people.
You might do something and create great inconvenience to them, but if you did something just really truly mean-spirited, nobody supported that or appreciated that.
And it was extraordinary when something like that happened.
I think it was my sophomore year, a couple of chickens were locked up in a dorm room at the beginning of a Christmas holiday.
And by the time the holiday was over, they had died and began to decay and it was just awful.
That was something an old guy like me will remember, but that was highly unusual that somebody would do something that mean and vicious, mean to the animals plus mean to the individual.
So there was something really extraordinary going on where somebody really had to be punished greatly.
And no one put a horse or a cow or a sheep or a goat in anybody's room that you recall?
Not during that time, but there, of course, in the history of the places you were there.
Once the supposed culprit was discovered, what would then be the punishment in your era for
It depended sort of on who the victim was.
If it was somebody that was disliked, like the first example I gave you, the punishment was trivial.
You might have to be campused one weekend.
You might have to march in the bull ring or so forth.
Something like that.
If it was somebody that
everybody liked, and it perceived to be that you had crossed the line, and it might be much greater.
They might take a broom to you.
They might do a whole variety of things to you.
Describe the bull ring in your era.
Well, this was the marching you had to do.
You would get these rams or gigs for breaking various rules.
It might be a uniform.
It might miss a deadline, a curfew or something.
And you had to march an hour for so many of these gigs.
And that occurred typically on Saturday afternoon, like from one to five.
You could, in principle, be out there marching in this huge square for anywhere from one to four hours on a Saturday afternoon.
It was not fun.
And you always prayed for rain, because if it rained, you had to study.
And of course, we all needed to study, so it was a perfect thing.
And the bull ring in those days was...
It was out on the Duncan drill field in those days.
And this was even though you said Saturday afternoon, so even if there might be a... No, it typically accumulated during football season, and after football season you had to march them off.
That's my recollection.
And what would be the most common offense that would lead?
Something to do with dress, you know, not having your uniform on appropriately or shoes not polished right.
And, you know, they weren't trivial things.
It had to be a pattern of behavior.
If you didn't speak to somebody, you know, maybe your room was over a period of time was not taken care of right.
Of all of the freshman routine, which one was your least favorite that you thought was the most unnecessary?
Having to get up for breakfast every morning.
It's hard for me to even get up now.
That was the part that I always thought was the worst.
On those rare occasions, like on a weekend, like a Sunday, you could sleep in.
That was heaven.
That was the most wonderful thing in the world.
And y'all weren't allowed to stay up late except on weekends?
That's right.
Now, you're supposed to go to bed.
My recollection is about 10.30.
You could get permission to stay later if you're cramming for a test or something.
But the normal time out or time you go to sleep is about 10.30.
Describe during your freshman year.
Describe the routine of a home football Saturday.
What time did you get up and what time did you all do whatever it was?
Well, all the games were like Saturday afternoon then.
So you got up and had the regular deal.
I don't remember anything extraordinary.
Obviously, there were people around.
You had the radical thing of girls coming into the dormitory because they had open houses and stuff.
So you had to get used to that.
We marched in just as they do now, so you had to spend a lot of time getting your uniform ready and things.
It was really after the game that you began to realize it was a weekend.
If you had a date, you could go somewhere.
If you didn't, you'd probably go out with your buddies somewhere.
Did you all throw your leaders in the pond?
Yeah, same deal when you won.
Did you have some dates as a freshman?
Yeah, sure.
Where did a young man and his date go in those days, those nights?
Not too many places.
Sometimes you'd go to a movie, sneak into the drive-in theater or something like that.
Sometimes you'd go to the clay pits.
I guess they're still out there.
Somebody told me they're still out there.
Was Uncle Ed's still around?
It was, but I've never really frequented Uncle Ed's.
If I went there one time, I'd be surprised.
Was there any place that was kind of other than Uncle Ed's that was on the fringe of being appropriate?
Yeah.
Out toward the airport, and frankly, I couldn't tell you the name of the place.
Went there once or twice, but there just wasn't a lot of that stuff.
You basically did private things.
You might double date with somebody and go to a movie.
You might go to a whiskey bridge and get something to drink, go out to the clay pits and just talk and drink beer or something, but...
Would you all go downtown to the movie much?
Very seldom.
I knew there was one, and typically the better movies are here at Northgate.
More commonly, we go to drive-in theaters.
Now, I've never heard anyone mention a bootlegger in Brazos County.
There may have been, but not in my world.
I've never heard mention of one, nor any house of ill repute.
Never heard that.
No, no.
When your date came down in your first year, where did she stay?
A variety of places.
There are places in town that accepted girls on weekends and stuff.
My date was Sally, my wife, and she, by the time we were juniors and stuff, she had a friend that had married an Aggie and she'd stay with them and a whole variety of things.
Sometimes she could get a room in the MSC.
Oh, that's right.
Now, was the Aggieland Inn still here then?
Yeah, but best of my knowledge, she never got a room there.
The MSC, she recalls staying there.
Then on Sunday, would Aggies go to church much?
Yeah.
Where did you go?
I didn't go very much, frankly.
When Sally was with me, I'd go to church with her.
She's a Catholic church.
So you went to St.
Mary's.
Let's talk about the congregations and how much student involvement was there in the local congregations?
I think there was quite a bit of the churches at Northgate because they were physically close.
I confess I wasn't doing a lot of that.
Were there some students that went on Sunday nights?
Oh yeah, sure.
Because Bob Walker told me that he found that the Church of Christ place was a good
opportunity to escape hazing, and he'd go over there in the afternoons, and that's how he became very much.
We all had our tricks.
Some people went to the library to escape.
I'll never forget Searsie Bracewell saying one of his first instructions from his upperclassmen was, do not go to the library.
Very good.
Let's see.
Okay, now at the end of that freshman year, what did you do that summer?
I had a job with a vinegar factory in Dallas.
I was a veteran.
I'd worked there the summer before, between my high school year and freshman year.
It was a place called Consolidated Products.
They made vinegar.
So it had nothing to do with engineering.
Well, not really.
Not really.
And I wasn't qualified.
I drove a truck.
It was an early version of an 18-wheeler.
And I just did labor around the plant.
Actually, only five or six people worked there.
And do you remember what the cost was of a year at A&M in your student years?
I think all the tuition was $50 for everything.
And then there was a small amount for room and board and stuff.
But probably if it was $500 for the year, I'd be surprised.
I don't really know precisely.
And your family paid that?
Yeah.
We were a situation where my dad paid everything.
Did you know anybody that had anything like a student loan of any sort?
No, I knew a lot of people that worked.
A huge number of people that worked.
The best jobs and the toughest jobs were waiters.
But John Hagler, for example, he did not have the good fortune of having the kind of money necessary to go to college.
He worked a huge amount his freshman and sophomore year.
Where?
He was a waiter.
Because I certainly have interviewed many, many people, and most of those people are the most grateful because they perceive clearly what difference that made.
There were small scholarship programs around and that kind of financial aid, but the idea of a federal loan and the kind of complex financial aid environment we have now, that was foreign.
What was it like then to become a sophomore?
Well, it was great.
It was just like every other sophomore has ever happened.
I was anxious to get back and enjoy the payback time.
It never occurred to us that we really owed the juniors, the then juniors, the payback, but we took it out on the freshmen.
It was good.
Of course, academically, the place got tougher.
The freshman year has its own kind of toughness, but I'm getting to the point where I'm taking the first set of engineering classes and stuff.
I really had a huge load academically.
Now this is the fall of 54?
This is the fall of 55, my sophomore year.
Did you have some favorite questions for fish, some favorite tasks?
I'm sure I did, but nothing.
I was more persistent in nagging than I was creative in my harassment.
What did you nag them about?
Oh, their dress, did they speak, did they keep their rooms right, and so forth.
would work long and hard to help them correct their deficiencies.
I've been told that by some old Aggies now that claimed I hazed them immersively when I was here, but I don't think of myself that way.
The MSC
was in full gear by that time.
What role did it play in your student days?
Well, it's a place to go study, get away.
Some of the best food on campus was in the MSC.
Occasionally, we got our nerve up.
We were supposed to basically go to Dunkin' and provide meal service to the upperclassmen, but occasionally we'd get our nerve up and sneak out.
We'd march to the door, and as the crowds were going in, we'd take off for the
MSC and get a good hamburger or something and run the threat of getting in trouble for doing that.
MSC was a haven.
Did you have any contact with Wayne Stark as a student?
I knew him, but I wasn't close to him.
He was a friend in a sense.
Everywhere he saw me, he knew me.
This was mainly my junior and senior year, but I wasn't one of his guys.
I didn't go to Harvard Business School.
I was focused on my engineering career.
Were you and other students aware of how he was drawing people in?
Very much so, very much so.
Of course, John Hagler was one of the people that he became close to.
My recollection was that the two of them really became close toward the end of our senior year.
I don't think John was thinking much about Harvard.
He was planning a military career, but he did that a while, and then he went to Harvard.
I think Stark is the guy that put the idea in his mind and got him thinking that thought.
Do you have any idea how that relationship developed?
How did Stark identify him?
Well, of course, at that time, John was Corps commander, so he was already a student leader, and Stark knew who they were.
That's how I got to know him.
I didn't know him before I went on a Corps staff.
Because as I understand from a number of people, and I almost saw it happen personally, a letter or a phone call from Wayne Stark to a certain person at the Harvard Business School could get a student in.
Well, that was a perception.
It may have been much more complicated than that.
I think it was almost that simple.
And apparently then those students upheld his judgment.
Yeah, I don't know when it really started, but in my generation, there's just dozens of people that I know that went there.
And what did you all think about the quality of the MSC as a structure and its opportunities?
Oh, we loved it.
I mean, we thought it was fantastic, of course, compared to where we lived and sort of a lot of the other stuff around it.
It really stood out.
Did you all think it was overdone?
Oh, no.
No.
See, I've not run into anybody that
I think when it was renovated when the 70s or something and the flag room was created, this perception that somehow we'd gone tacky or it was overdone came about.
Well, not in those old days.
That's right.
It was very understated, almost a reverent kind of place.
You didn't cut up there.
You didn't make noise.
It was definitely a memorial.
I've heard legends about the discussion of the board whether or not to air condition it, but I never heard anybody complain about the fact that it was air conditioned.
Guyon Hall, what role did it play in your room?
Well, it was very important.
Of course, there were movies there every Saturday night.
It was a place you could go and watch a free movie.
They weren't altogether the first-run premiere kinds of places, but it was really the only place to go and have a meeting.
You know, if you wanted to get the Corps together or a large group of people together, it was really the only place.
A lot of graduations were held there.
The December graduation might be there, or the end of summer graduation might be there.
So it was a place that it was used intensely.
In fact, I think one of our biggest mistakes here was to take it down.
If that were a question today, it would be seen as outrageous to even think about it.
And as I understand, I don't know this for certain, but as I understand it, Dorsey McCrory forgot to call and notify the family.
Mr. Rutter, I think, asked him to.
And the guy and family learned of the demolition by seeing a picture in the Waco paper.
I had not heard that.
I hope that's not correct, but I've heard that indirectly.
Like, I always argued, if nothing else, leave the columns as a symbol at this end of military war.
I've had similar thoughts.
If you...
Look on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C.
You're walking the street.
A lot of those storefronts look old like they've done for years and years.
You back up 50 feet, and they're the facade on a big skyscraper.
And there are ways to sort of preserve those kind of architectural elements.
You know, it can't be brought back.
I'm told that it took a lot of effort to get it down, get the building down.
Yes, it was very well constructed.
Describe what you recall about the Aggie response to movies.
What kinds of noises did Aggies... I don't have great memories about that.
I thought there used to be a lot of hoo-ahs and cheering.
Well, there was.
There was.
I think the expression animal-like behavior was not unusual.
I don't think that was unique to Aggies.
It was guys.
I've not heard of any allegation about obscenities being yelled.
Oh, no.
You just wouldn't do that.
There really wasn't a lot of obscenities in your normal conversation.
There were some, but nothing excessive.
YMCA, what was it in your days?
It was an office place.
By the time I came, the bowling alley was over in MSC.
YMCA was not a place that was a student gathering place.
We knew its history and all that, but it was largely an office place.
I think some of the dean of students and people like that were there.
Did y'all call it the Quack Shack?
Now, the quack shack was the old hospital.
No, I mean, did y'all call the hospital the quack shack?
Oh, no.
I don't recall it that.
I'm biased now.
I know that's what the kids call the current one, but I do know that we had little regard for the quality of medical work.
Was there a full-time doc?
I don't think so.
There was a nurse.
What we would now understand to be a kind, gracious, elderly lady in those days, a vicious, mean old woman, but unfriendly and all that stuff.
Did you ever have a minor injury that
Only colds and things like that.
This place in those days seemed to be the coldest place in North America.
I think it was probably the uniform in the early hours and the fact you were tired most of the time.
Everybody was catching colds, flu.
During your four years, you didn't have to really go to the hospital.
Nothing serious like that.
Any life-changing events in your first couple years?
Life-changing.
Where something happened that you knowed.
Yeah, the thing that comes to mind is, and I apologize, I don't remember his name, but one of my classmates was killed during the bonfire my freshman year.
And he was, we used to guard the perimeter of the whole campus, and he was standing behind a truck or car or something, and somebody hit him and sandwiched him between them.
And his name occurred in a lot of the discussions this year about bonfire, and I just don't really remember him.
Bob Walker probably even remembers him.
But he lived for a couple days, and the whole place was traumatized about what had happened to him.
And it was after that they sort of pulled the guarding in closer into the campus and got it off the main streets.
And that really affected everybody.
I think probably there's still a monument out here on the Simpson drill field somewhere with his name on it.
And bonfire your freshman year, what was your role?
Well, we went to the cut area.
We hauled logs.
How far away?
Do you remember?
I couldn't tell you.
It wasn't far, you know, five, ten miles or something like that.
And, you know, there was no equipment.
You physically lifted the logs with sticks, kind of parallel sticks and stuff.
And there were trucks to bring them in.
Backbreaking hard labor.
The freshmen did it.
The upperclassmen managed it.
Who did the cutting?
Seniors did the cutting, in my recollection.
Seniors did the cutting, and freshmen did the lifting.
Lifting stuff.
Juniors would manage that, and their sophomores had to lift, too.
Was the terminology already there?
None of the red pot, brown pot, none of that was there.
And the people that ran the bonfire were the yell leaders.
The yell leaders built the bonfire.
That was their job.
And the bonfire was...
Well, my freshman year it was out here in front of the MSC.
Then they moved it to Duncan the last three years.
Do you have any idea how long you worked on Bonfire as a freshman?
Oh, quite a bit.
Of course, you didn't start working until after the, all the work began on the Sunday after the football game, the next to last football game.
Now, the following Saturday was an off week, so you'd work all that week and then the first few days the next week.
And so the bonfire was put together in about 10 days.
And that Sunday morning after the next-to-last game, all the core would be out cutting and stuff.
And that was a big shock for freshmen.
We didn't know what it was and all that stuff.
But you worked all day long, essentially every free hour the next week.
Right number of logs got out there, then they were stacked.
You had to go out and help stack.
But, you know, you can't get as many humans around that so far.
And by and large, it was how many logs high?
Oh, it was one log high.
It was a TP, single stack TP kind of thing.
And you can look at pictures.
They're probably 25 to 30 feet tall, depending on the source of the logs and stuff.
There was no stacks on top of stacks and stuff.
And the enthusiasm was just as great then?
Yeah, just as great.
The crowds were just as into it.
The atmospherics around it, the night it was burnt, were about the same, really the same.
And editorially, I think it'll be the same this time.
Because as a newcomer who did not expect to be at A&M very long,
I remember going the first year we were here.
We had a baby, and we brought him.
He was not quite a year old, and I don't think we've missed many since then.
Each one of our kids has watched bonfires from my shoulders.
It was a community activity.
So we thought...
The football routine, did you become aware as a sophomore or later that there were any special courses for athletes?
Were they supposedly taking...
easy things?
It was our perception that they took easy things.
Of course, they lived in an athletic dorm and even though they were in the Corps, most of them, you know, they had certain freedoms about uniforms and so forth.
I think probably we
unfairly judged them in some way.
I now know, for example, at John David Crow, he graduated in four years just like I did.
A lot of those guys graduated probably more than everybody would ever expect.
But the perception was in those days that they were taking easy programs.
Where were the easy courses, supposedly?
College of Business.
College of Business?
Yeah, College of Business.
It wasn't a college then.
It was a Department of Business.
And quite unfairly, the perception was, you know, if you didn't make it in engineering, you went to business.
And it's kind of interesting the way that's evolved over the years now.
You know, business is seen as a rigorous, demanding program, which it is.
Now, obviously, you engineers thought engineering was the most demanding.
Of course.
What else was there that you all thought that was almost...
As demanding.
What was next?
In my mind, I think physics, something like that.
All the basic sciences, chemistry.
I hated chemistry, which for me would have been worse.
I'm trying to think about other important A&M events.
Did you go to Muster early on?
Yeah, yeah.
It was held, my recollection, it was held out in front of the MSA.
And, yeah, we went to Muster.
Did you know about Muster before you came?
Oh, no.
What did it?
Did it make an impression on your heart?
Yeah, of course.
At that point, in the spring of my freshman year, I knew a lot about it and was into it.
I learned about it.
So it wasn't sort of the traumatic experience or the shocking experience the way that Silver Taps was.
Interviewed a man last week named Edgar Patterson, who got here in the fall of 21 as a freshman.
He's 97, still drives his own car in Houston.
He's the oldest surviving band, he called himself band drum major.
And he could not remember, when he was a student, he could not remember a muster or a bonfire or a silver taps.
He did remember midnight yell practice.
He could not remember the band playing The Spirit.
when he was a student, but he did remember they were playing the war hymn.
That was very much.
And he said, now, my memory may have faded, but he said, I don't remember those events.
And I thought some of our traditions, we may have extended them a few years.
As you're going on up the ladder, sophomore and junior,
What were the high-prestige student organizational activities?
What did you all think of the Aggie band?
We did not think much of the band.
The band was always seen to be a little bit out of step with everybody else.
If you could create trouble for the band, that was regarded as good because they would make trouble for you.
I accuse them today of doing the following, which they certainly did then.
reviews.
The Corps is marching and then they grade them.
They try to decide which unit looks the best, marches the best.
Well, the band is always in that competition.
So if a unit they're competing with is coming before the judges, they shift the cadence.
And if you watch them now, they'll do it still.
I accuse them of that, and they just giggle and deny it.
But for generations, they've done stuff like that.
They were always seen as a little bit weird, a little bit out of step.
Interestingly now, though, they're a unit that's very accommodating to women, for example.
So they're probably more in mainstream of what the Corps ought to be than most of them.
What about senior debts?
Were they around in those days?
Definitely around and highly regarded.
Enormous amount of time investment to be involved with them, just like there is today.
Your leaders, were they...
thought of as key students?
They were respected and everything, but they were not thought of as strong academic students.
They tend to be the good old boys and the great guys.
It was a power position in a sense.
It was a prestigious position, but you didn't win it by being a scholar and an academic.
You won it by being tough, good old boy time.
And the most respected, I think I know the answer to this one, the most respected student leadership position on the campus was... I was a court commander.
And was there even a student body president?
Oh, definitely.
There was?
There definitely was.
And it wasn't a negative, but a lot of people wouldn't know who you were.
What about senior class president?
Yeah, there was... How did that compare to student body?
Marginally better, but not significantly better.
Court commander majorized all of them.
Probably after court commander was head yelling at her.
Did you know whether any secret fraternities existed in that era?
There was talk about them, speculations, but there was never any kind of public or overt kind of thing.
We all heard the stories.
I think the last big event was sort of a few months before I came here, in the spring of 1954.
Oh, is that when Dr. Harrington tried to crack down?
Yeah, I think the TTs or something was the group.
In fact, I think even some of them were football players, and there's some story that Bear Bryant had come for spring practice and lost some of his good football players.
But that event was in the mythology of the place at the time, but there was no sign of the activity.